---
layout: post
title: Research Student Talks
subtitle: 2:15 - 3:30pm, Monday, 5th August 2013, CSE/082
---


**Speakers**:

- Gabriel Costa Silva

- Chris Bak

- Judith Borghouts and Frank Soboczenski


**Abstract**:

- **Part I: _“Addressing Vendor Lock-in in Cloud Computing”_ (Gabriel Costa Silva)**
   
    Addressing Vendor Lock-in in Cloud Computing”Vendor lock-in, or the dependency of a specific vendor, is not a new issue in Computer Science. Such issue is present in the choice of a operating system, a programming language, or a broadband provider. However, it is critical issue to the adoption of Cloud Computing by large companies. Cloud Computing is a emergent model in which resources, such as computing and storage, are provided as on-demand services through a network – similar to the public utilities, such as water or gas. In such a model, the IT assets (e.g., software, servers) are transferred from the company premises to a Cloud provider. Due to the heterogeneity of semantics, technologies, and APIs adopted by different Cloud providers, it is hard to migrate one asset amongst providers. Therefore, large companies fear that adopting Cloud they be locked-in one specific provider, thus, losing flexibility. The main goals of this talk is to clarify some concepts related to Cloud lock-in, present the current solutions, and discuss the main challenges.


  
- **Part II: _“GP: Programming with Graphs”_ (Chris Bak)**
   
    Graphs are common in computer science; they are used as simple and intuitive models in various applications. It is hence desirable to have a language that facilitates the algorithmic manipulation of graph-based structures at a very high-level. Such languages often exploit the diagrammatic nature of graphs to provide a simpler programming experience than the use of more common languages.My research concerns the implementation of GP, York University’s own graph programming language. It is designed for simple, graphical programming based on a strong theoretical foundation of graph transformation. This presentation gives a brief introduction to graphs, graph programming and the GP language.

- **Part III: _“Two research directions towards safer number-entry in interactive medical system”_ (Judith Borghouts and Frank Soboczenski)**
      
    Humans are prone to errors. Although many errors in daily life are little more than an inconvenience, in safety-critical systems such as healthcare, a small error can have grave consequences. Number-­entry is a ubiquitous task in healthcare. Despite the potentially fatal consequences of errors, very little is known about the errors people make when using medical devices such as infusion pumps and how the devices themselves influence the errors made. We present our work in this particular area of safety-critical systems which ranges from investigating the effect of specific design features for interactive medical systems on reducing errors, to the exploration and application of a well-developed theory from psychology.




**Chair**: Pedro Ribeiro


___




