---
layout: post
title: Well-being, mental health and mindfulness for research students
subtitle: 3:30 - 4:30pm, Thursday, 5th February 2014, CSE/082
---


**Speakers**:

- [Anna Bramwell-Dicks](http://www-users.cs.york.ac.uk/~annab/)

- [Laura Harrison(Breathworks mindfulness trainer)](https://uk.linkedin.com/pub/laura-harrison/23/680/93b)


**Abstract**:

Being a research student is stressful, but when does normal stress tip over into ill health? This seminar considers mental health and well-being for graduate students including ways to help yourself through stressful times. It will touch upon the following topics:

- Recognising the early warning signs of mental Illnesses

- Practical ways to take care of yourself

- Strategies for improving and maintaining good mental health

- Introduction to mindfulness including mindfulness exercises



**Chair**: [Sam Simpson](http://www-users.cs.york.ac.uk/~ssimpson)


___


**Seminar Material**

- [Laura’s presentation](http://prezi.com/bf1fkmhzlpjo/?utm_campaign=share&utm_medium=copy&rc=ex0share)

- [Video recording](https://www.cs.york.ac.uk/RSseminars/videos) (requires authentication using UoY IT credentials)


**Useful Reading**

**Laura’s notes on mindfulness**
   
Please also take a look at the points below that I’ve tailored for three different motivations you might have for wanting to learn mindfulness. I hope this helps with navigating the sometimes bewildering range of resources and main approaches to teaching mindfulness in the UK (MBSR, MBCT & MBPM)!


**If you would like to learn mindfulness because you are currently experiencing mental health difficulties:**

- I’d encourage you to discuss learning mindfulness with an appropriate health professional and to keep in touch with them, particularly if you experience psychosis.
- If your condition usually fluctuates and/or you are currently seriously/acutely unwell, then for most people it is appropriate to wait until you are more stable before starting to learn these new skills.
- I’d also encourage you to consider attending a group and/or do a course with guidance from a trained mindfulness teacher who follows the UK network of mindfulness teacher’s good practice guidelines, rather than only learning by yourself. (This isn’t because I’m a mindfulness teacher, but because without any support some people find they ‘practice’ rumination, anxiety and being mean to themselves.)
 - ‘Informal’ mindfulness practices (e.g. listening to sounds, mindful walking) and very short led meditations can be an easier way to start than longer formal meditation practice and immediately turning towards difficulty.
 - If you have experienced recurrent depression, anxiety or have another mental health condition then the most appropriate type of course is likely to be Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy led by a health professional trained in MBCT.
 - Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) and Breathworks courses can also be appropriate if you experience anxiety, depression and other mental health difficulties, but discuss your situation with the mindfulness teacher.
 - When you are able, the key book to read for depression is “The Mindful Way Through Depression” by Mark Williams (includes led meditations). I also highly recommend ‘The Compassionate Mind’ by Paul Gilbert.
  

**If you would like to learn mindfulness to cope better with general stress and to support good health:**

- The most appropriate type of course is likely to be either the Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction or the Breathworks Mindfulness for Stress course (which is a variant of MBSR with a strong compassion element).
- A Mindfulness Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) course would be appropriate if you’ve had episodes of depression in the past.
- Think about using both informal and formal mindfulness practices during your day.
- A good book to read is ‘Mindfulness: a practical guide to finding peace in a frantic world’ by Mark Williams and Danny Penman (includes led meditations). I also highly recommend ‘The Compassionate Mind’ by Paul Gilbert and ‘The Mindful Path to Self Compassion’ by Christopher Germer.


**If you would like to learn mindfulness because you experience chronic pain, fatigue and/or illness and the stress that arises from these conditions:**

- The most appropriate course is likely to be the Breathworks Mindfulness for Health course – Mindfulness Based approaches for Pain and illness Management (MBPM) More information and course locations (including an online course) are at: [www.breathworks-mindfulness.org.uk](www.breathworks-mindfulness.org.uk)
- The key book is ‘Mindfulness for Health’ by Vidyamala Burch & Danny Penman (includes led meditations) I also highly recommend ‘The Compassionate Mind’ by Paul Gilbert.



___


