---
layout: post
title: RS Student talks
subtitle: 3:30 - 4:30pm, Thursday, 22nd October , CSE/082-083
---


**Speakers**:

- [Matt Dale](https://www.cs.york.ac.uk/people/?group=nature&username=mdale)

- [Nasos Kokkinakis](https://www.cs.york.ac.uk/people/?group=Research%20Students&username=avk)



**Abstract**:

- **Part I: _“Unconventional Reservoir Computers: Exploiting Materials To Perform Computation”_ (Matt Dale)**
   
    Reservoir Computing (RC) has been identified as a powerful technique for training Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and an adaptable computational model for many unconventional systems. The reservoir model can be defined by its two structural partitions; a ``reservoir'', a dynamical  system that creates a complex projection of the input, and a linear readout layer trained upon the output reservoir states. The paradigm is highly competitive to many state-of-art machine learning techniques and provides an excellent theoretical grounding in training and understanding desirable characteristics of self-contained physical systems. In this short presentation, I will argue that in-materio systems - comprising of complex nanoscale substrates - could represent ideal, re-configurable physical reservoirs. In addition, I will also propose that many physical reservoirs could benefit from optimisation/exploration techniques, using methodologies found in Evolution-in-Materio (EIM), to configure systems into highly susceptible states that could ultimately boost the reservoir training mechanism. And if time permits, attempt to discuss possible solutions to issues found in both fields such as scalability and task/behavioural complexity.
 

  
- **Part II: _“From infobesity to elegant satisficiency: can systems cure bad information behaviour?”_ (Nasos Kokkinakis)**
   
    Video-games produce a massive amount of data everyday, ranging from in-game Reaction Times to post-game social interactions such as Reports and Honours (the equivalent of a like or a dislike on facebook). This talk will focus on videogames as tests for constructs such as occulomotor proficiency, resource management/allocation, Intelligence and Working Memory. Data which were not previously taken advantage of and their implications, such as the age in a nickname (for instance bob1995 tends to have been born in 1995), will be discussed.

    Finally, I will talk about the role of Visuospatial Working Memory in videogames and its link to mental diseases and mathematical ability, why you are probably past your prime as a videogamer, unless the game has a large body of crystallized knowledge one requires to master, and possible ways that you can become better.


___


**Seminar Material**

- [Matt's presentation](../../material/Oct15/reservoir-computing-model.pdf)

___


